Add Migration guides to v1.0.0 (#51)
atolab/zenoh-web: content/docs/migration_1.0/Python.md

---
title: "Python"
weight : 6500
menu:
  docs:
    parent: migration_1.0
---

## Highlights

> The library has been fully rewritten to use only Rust. It should make no difference for users, except you may observe a significant performance improvement, up to x5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library has been fully rewritten to use only Rust. It should make no difference for users, except for a significant performance improvement, of up to x5.
```

The API has also been reworked to feel more pythonic, using notably context managers.

> ## Context managers and background execution

Reviewer 2: Abrupt transition. Change from `RAII` to context manager should be briefly explained and only then describe the specific cases.

Author: @Mallets Can you add Joseph to this atolab ?

Reviewer 2: Invitation sent to @wyfo.

Reviewer 3: What do you call "abrupt transition"?

Why do we need to explain the change? The only thing users should modify in their code is adding a context manager for session, and that's clearly written on the first line; the rest of their code *can* remain the same. 

But I agree I should add a paragraph after the example of subscriber without context-manager to mention that keeping a variable in the scope is no more necessary.

Reviewer 2: I think it's always good to explain the underlying change even in the case it does not require any change in the code of the user.

Reviewer 3: I quite disagree here, especially here when we are talking about Python users who may not even know the acronym RAII or what is a Python finalizer. 
Also, there is no underlying change here, Python finalizers are still used, and you program may still deadlock if exit it on an exception. The only change was to implement context manager, to let users do things properly, and avoid deadlock issue.

You *should* close the zenoh session after use and the recommended way is through context manager:

```python
import zenoh
with zenoh.open(zenoh.Config()) as session:
    # `session.close()` will be called at the end of the block
```

Session-managed objects like subscribers or queryables can also be managed using context managers:

```python
with session.declare_subscriber("my/keyexpr") as subscriber:
    # `subscriber.undeclare()` will be called at the end of the block`
```

> However, these objects can also be used without context manager, and without calling `undeclare`. In that case, they will run in “background” mode, meaning that their lifetime will be bound on the session’s one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, these objects can also be used without context manager, and without calling `undeclare`. In that case, they will run in “background” mode, meaning that their lifetime will be bound to the session’s.
```

```python
import zenoh
with zenoh.open(zenoh.Config()) as session:
    subscriber = session.declare_subscriber("my/keyepxr")
    for sample in subscriber:
        ...

>     # `session.close()` will be called at the end of the block,    # and it will undeclare the subscriber

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # `session.close()` will be called at the end of the block, and it will undeclare the subscriber
```

```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

*In previous versions, it was necessary to keep a variable in the scope for declared subscribers/queryables/etc. This restriction no longer exists, as objects not bound to a variable will still run in "background" mode, until the session is closed.*

```

@Mallets

Author: Added

## ZBytes, encoding, and (de)serialization

### Encoding

> `zenoh.Value` has been split in `zenoh.ZBytes` and `zenoh.Encoding`. Put and other operations now requires a `ZBytes` payload, and accept an optional `Encoding`; there is no more auto-encoding from the payload type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`zenoh.Value` has been split in `zenoh.ZBytes` and `zenoh.Encoding`. Put and other operations now require a `ZBytes` payload, and accept an optional `Encoding`; there is no more auto-encoding from the payload type.
```

```python
session.put("my/keyexpr", 42) # default encoding `zenoh/bytes`session.put("my/keyexpr", 42, encoding=zenoh.Encoding.ZENOH_INT64)
```

> Publishers can be declared with a default encoding, which will be used for each put operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publishers can be declared with a default encoding, which will be used for each put operation.
```

```python
import json
publisher = session.declare_publisher("my/keyepxr", encoding=zenoh.Encoding.APPLICATION_JSON)
publisher.put(json.dumps({"key", "value"}))  # default encoding from publisher `application/json`
```

### (De)serialization

> Arbitrary types can be serialized to and deserialized from `ZBytes`. Default (de)serializers are provided for builtin types; `list`/`dict` are **no more** serialized to JSON, they use instead zenoh builtin serializer, compatible with other zenoh bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arbitrary types can be serialized to and deserialized from `ZBytes`. Default (de)serializers are provided for builtin types; `list`/`dict` are **no longer** serialized to JSON, they use instead the builtin serializer of Zenoh, which is compatible with other Zenoh bindings.
```

```python
payload = zenoh.ZBytes(42)
assert payload.deserialize(int) == 42# `ZBytes.deserialize` accepts generic `list`/`dict` typepayload = zenoh.ZBytes([0.5, 37.1])
assert payload.deserialize(list[float]) == [0.5, 37.1]
```

> (De)serializers can be registered for custom types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(De)serializers can be registered for custom types:
```

---
title: "Python"
weight : 6500
menu:
  docs:
    parent: migration_1.0
---

## Highlights

> The library has been fully rewritten to use only Rust. It should make no difference for users, except for a significant performance improvement, of up to x5.

Reviewer 2: Let's not make any claim unless verified on the official test bench.
```suggestion
The library has been fully rewritten to use only Rust. It should make no difference for users, except for a significant performance improvement.
```
